All right.
Good afternoon, everyone.
Welcome to the last session
between you and the peer bash.
And my name is Juussi-Pekkka Mantere.
I am the Engineering Manager for Managed
Client 10 and Portable Home Directories.
I work in the
Desktop Management Solutions team
at Apple.
So for our agenda today, first of all,
could I have a show of hands?
How many of you are developers?
Not IT professionals,
but software developers?
Wow.
OK, that's excellent.
I wasn't quite sure if we had more
IT folk or if we had more developers.
The more developers, the better.
This will be a good session for you.
So the agenda-- we're going to talk
about best practices of good behavior.
So what should your application
do if your application will be
used in a managed environment
or in a network environment?
We'll cover Portable Home Directories,
and then we'll go into
Managed Client 10 in Tiger,
what's new, and specifically,
what our preference manifests.
So just as an overview--
What is a network user?
I'm not sure how many of you
actually use network accounts
or network home directories.
So there are a couple of things
that are unique in this kind of
enterprise deployment environment.
We have network accounts.
We have network home directories.
We have managed accounts.
We have laptops that
have mobile accounts.
And we have managed systems.
And then we have roaming users
who are on wireless networks.
So what would your
typical network look like?
So we have a network, servers,
and we have administrative systems.
And then we have a bunch of users
and work groups and systems.
And all these would be managed.
So users,
those are created by IT administrators.
Work groups would be typically,
let's say, the WWDC attendees.
That would be a work group.
WWDC, Apple staff,
that could be another work group.
And then systems.
All of these things can have
custom preferences or settings
or management applied to them.
So that's your basic network setup.
And then last but not least,
we also have wireless users.
So we have people who
would come on a laptop,
hook up to an airport or Wi-Fi network,
and then be roaming on the network,
come and go off as they
connect to the system.
So what are the considerations here then?
Network Home Directory is, of course,
different than your local home directory.
Performance characteristics would
be different because everything
is going to go over the wire.
And this is not your typical feature,
as in Windows.
Because of OS X underpinnings,
it's all Unix.
So Network Home Directory is just the
same as your local home directory.
From the operating system point of view,
it just starts from slash network
as opposed to slash users.
And then another consideration
is your users might be managed.
The systems might be managed.
So by management,
we mean Workgroup Management settings
in a Mac OS X server.
And other types of management would
be having DHCP-assigned addresses,
so your network settings could also
impose management on you if you
get DNS settings or open directory
settings from your DHCP binding.
And another type of management
would be systems management.
So Apple Remote Desktop could
be a way to install packages
on the systems on the network.
And finally, we have Managed Client 10,
which would be client management.
The settings and the users and workgroups
in your network environment could be
managed through Workgroup Manager.
And one form of this would
be parental controls.
In Mac OS X Tiger,
parental controls would use, let's say,
the settings for Safari or other
system settings that also impose
management on the local system,
even when the local system
is not a network client.
of clients.
And then there's also
an issue with accounts.
So do you have a network account
that has a network credential
coming up from a directory system,
or is it a mobile account,
or is it a local account?
So a mobile account would
be a hybrid of the two,
where a local account is
just the local net info node.
So your mobile account caches
your network credentials.
And if you do have a mobile account,
then your authentication
information comes from the network.
But as the local user cannot
change their credentials,
and if the local net
info node is modified,
then the settings would be overwritten
by the next time the account is
synchronized back to the network.
So I'm going to cover two
different best practices.
One is for file system access.
The other one would be for preferences.
So first I'll cover file system.
Of course,
what you want to do if you write
applications that will be used
in a network environment-- so
run either from a network volume,
or in an environment where
the user's home directory
would be on a network volume.
So optimize the performance.
Minimize disk access.
So if you hit the disk all the time,
then that's going to
incur network traffic.
And who's going to benefit?
Your network users and
your portable users.
So the less you access the disk for any
application data inside your bundle,
looking up whatever or whatnot,
if you can optimize that performance,
your users who are on network
accounts or who are using laptops
or portables will thank you.
And the tools available
to you would be SHARK,
or FS usage, or SC usage.
And there are also tools where
we can use-- we can have-- oh,
sorry.
We have documentation on
the Apple Developer site.
There's optimization for system level.
There's optimization for
performance for the file system.
So if you look them up
on developer.apple.com,
you'll find loads of information on
how to use these tools and how to
make the best out of your application.
If you do have to create local files,
you might want to consider
whether you create those files,
temporary files,
in the user's home directory,
or if you're going to create
them on the local system.
You have utilities in the OS that
gives you the path to the right places.
Use fsfind folder,
and on system disk will get you
pieces that are local to the system,
not on the network disk.
You can also find temporary
folders or chewable items that
will reside on the local system.
Tilde Library caches.
How do you use caches?
Is it private data to the application,
to the user?
If the user is on a
network home directory,
then anything that goes into
the cache directory will
actually go over the network.
If you're optimizing your
application's performance so that
it doesn't access the network,
and it's using local caches,
then in fact,
when it's accessing the cache,
it is going on the network.
You might want to use
local data for cache,
local system disk.
You might want to use caching as
opposed to user directory data.
There could be some security concerns
regarding the use of local files.
There was a session earlier this week
regarding how to make sure that if
you do create local temporary files,
that they're not accessible by
other users or other applications,
so how to secure those.
What is the best way of finding out
how is your application behaving?
Test it out.
Use your application
either on a locked volume,
on a network volume,
so try out the different
scenarios that your typical user
would most likely encounter.
It's not just a local system,
local hard drive.
You'd want to cover using your
application from a network volume,
from a locked volume,
and from a locked system where the user
does not have access to the local disk,
because that disk might be locked
only for administrator access.
Next, I'm going to cover preferences.
What about preferences management?
This comes into Managed Client
10 and preferences management.
The rule of thumb here is to
use CFPreferences copy-up value.
This will always get you the
right path to the preferences.
We will use the CFPreferences framework,
and because of the management,
the way it's applied,
it could be imposed on the system,
and you may not even know.
Your application may not know where
the preferences are coming from.
They could be locked for the system,
they could be locked for the user,
or could be locked for the work
group that the user is part of.
CFPreferences copy-up value is guaranteed
to return the right preferences.
The right preferences state
whether or not it's managed.
The corresponding class in Cocoa would
be NSUserDefaults and objectForKey.
And do not use CFPreferences copy
value unless you explicitly need some
information from a particular domain.
So if you want to find the global
preference for setting XYZ,
you would use CFPreferences copy value,
but not as the standard
preference is called.
You'd want to use copy app value instead.
And if you do support preferences,
you would want to make sure that any
preferences that you have reflect the
management state in the user interface.
So if the preferences are locked,
you can find by calling
CFPreferences app value is forced,
or using NSUserDefaults,
object is forced for key,
and know that this preference
is not under the user's control.
It is imposed on the user by
the network administrators.
And you can also inherit the user
interface through Cocoa Classes.
So you could use
NSUserDefaults controller to find
out whether or not that object
that's tied to that UI element,
the key underneath it,
if that's locked or not.
So, applications behaving badly.
Excessive file system access.
For example, if you have an application
that uses fonts and wants to
copy them to the local system,
it really is not necessarily
the best idea to copy them to
the user's local home directory,
because that could be a network volume,
and any time you access that,
you will incur network transaction.
The bits are going to go over the wire,
and it's not as efficient as having
the fonts reside on the local disk.
So, use library application support
for storing any files that you'd
want to install for the user,
but you'd really want to
install on the system,
not just for the user,
because the user home directory,
user still library,
will be on the network disk.
And if you're creating
network-shared resources,
well, let's say you want to share
movies or share music or whatnot,
you'd want to support
turning off that feature.
Because in some settings,
let's say in a school environment or in
an enterprise company or at universities,
perhaps the administrators
don't want to enable people
sharing stuff on the network,
just ad hoc sharing,
like using Bonjour or
whatnot to find resources.
So if you do enable sharing of
resources from a local system,
you'd probably want to have a
preference that disables that
functionality so that the system
administrators can control that.
So that was a wrap-up of the two areas,
preferences and file systems.
I'm going to talk briefly about
Portable Home Directories.
So Portable Home Directories is
a new feature in Mac OS X Tiger.
In Mac OS X Panther, there was a feature
called Mobile Accounts,
and those were attached copies
of your network accounts.
So in Tiger, we have mobile accounts with
Portable Home Directories.
So we have a local copy of the
network account with a local copy of
the user's network home directory.
And in case of management,
if the user is managed,
we can use the Workgroup settings
and the management settings
on the local system as well,
on a portable, on a PowerBook,
even when it's not
connected to the network.
And a Portable Home Directory can be
created either locally by the user,
if the user has admin privileges.
So it's going through system preferences
accounts and just making a local account,
and can also be created
through Workgroup Manager.
And for application developers,
the one thing that you want to be
aware of is not using hard-coded paths.
User's home directory will
change from /network to /users.
So if you write anything that's
relevant to the user's home directory,
you'd want to make it relative
to the tilde path for the user,
and not using hard-coded
paths for the user,
because those aliases and paths will
not be valid if the user is going
to have a portable home directory.
So with that, we'll do a quick demo.
And let me invite Bruce Gaya,
who is the engineering lead for Managed
Client 10 and Portable Home Directories.
OK, thanks.
JENS DOPKE: If you can go to demo one.
First of all,
I want to describe my demo setup here.
On this machine, we have Mac OS X server,
and these two have
been set up as clients.
I've set up,
and now I've launched Workgroup Manager,
and this will give you a view of
what's set up in the directory system.
We have some users set up, some groups,
and some computer records.
And also,
each of these clients have been bound
to the server using the directory
access so that when they wake up,
they get the directory
settings from this server.
OK.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to,
as an administrator,
allow Juussi to create a mobile
account and a portable home directory.
And so I go to this panel here
and go to the Preferences.
And you see a lot of preferences.
Many of these were also
present in Panther.
We've changed some of them,
and one of the ones that
we've changed is Mobility.
So I click on Mobility,
and I see there's two tabs here,
Synchronization and Rules.
So I'm going to say Always,
and I'm going to click this box which
says Synchronize Account for Offline Use.
This box down here will present a
dialog when you log in so that you can
choose if you really want to create
a portable account on this machine,
or you want to just log in
as your network account.
Okay, and I'm going to apply now.
Over here are some rules
sections which allow you to
decide what gets synchronized.
And this tab here says
Login and Logout Sync,
and I'm going to click Always.
And I'm going to add two folders which
will be synchronized at Login and Logout.
So first of all, I need to browse for it.
I'm going to get the desktop, Add.
And also, Documents, Add.
And that's all that I want synchronized
at log in and log out time,
so I'm all set with this.
Just those two folders.
Now, Background Sync.
And this sync will
occur in the background.
Its default is every 20 minutes.
And I want that to match my log
in and log out sync settings
for this particular user.
So I'm going to get rid of this.
By default, it syncs everything.
I'm going to get rid of that.
And instead, I'm going to say,
just sync Desktop.
and Documents.
And I say apply now.
I want to mention something else.
This pane down here will allow
you to skip a bunch of things,
and you can set up wildcards,
and it's very rule-based,
so I could say no syncing of
.mp3s or that sort of thing,
but I'm going to leave it in
the default settings for now.
So just desktop and
documents and the background.
And now in the options,
I told you that it default
syncs every 20 minutes,
and I can change this
here using this slider,
but for my setup,
I don't want any of that background
syncing because I don't know what
the network load is going to be,
so I'm just going to
say manually for now.
And so just say apply now,
and now it's all set up for you.
All right.
Thank you, Bruce.
So if you can have demo three up, please.
So this is another machine that's hooked
up to our small little network over here,
and as you see,
we have users that are network accounts.
So I'll just log on to my account.
[Transcript missing]
I have my trusted presentation,
Designing Network-Friendly Applications.
I just bring it to the
desktop and copies,
and here it goes.
So now that's a copy on the local system.
And let's say if I log on
back to my network home.
Let me just take this out.
Oh, and one more thing.
I'm not really sure if I really
want to keep the YouTube video here.
It's about 30 megs.
It was nice for a while,
but I've seen it enough times,
and there are new iPad ads there, too.
So I'll just delete that file.
Okay, so now my desktop is
modified on the local system.
So if you can have Demo 2 up, please.
So on Demo 2, this is, again,
a network user, network accounts.
And if I now log on to my network home,
This is now a live connection
to the server system.
And if I look at what my
network home looks like,
well, it's on network servers,
WWDC local/users/Jussi.
And I still have my YouTube photo,
and I have no presentation.
But if my PowerBook now
syncs up to the network,
So let me do a manual sync here first.
And let's just keep demo two up there.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, there.
So now my PowerBook, my laptop,
is synchronizing itself
up to the network,
and voila,
my really important presentation is now
pushed up to the network home directory.
And, well, where did my YouTube movie go?
So any changes that I make on
the local system get propagated
back up to the network.
So that's the Portable Home Directory.
And for you as developers,
the things to note is that now
my home directory path on the
PowerBook is not network servers.
It was slash users slash JuSsi.
So if any applications had written that
path into any of their settings files,
it would no longer be
valid on the laptop.
So, and of course on the laptop,
the local net info node,
the user credentials are copied
from the network account,
so if any changes were
made on the local system,
those would not get applied
to the local account,
or they would be overwritten next time
the system is synced back to the network.
So,
that is the Portable Home Directory demo.
If you can go back to the slides, please.
And thank you, Bruce.
So what's next?
We'll talk about Managed
Client 10 in Tiger.
So what's new in Managed
Client 10 in Tiger?
Here's the Workgroup Manager screen.
This is what network administrators
would use to manage the
settings in their network.
And here we see there
are a couple of settings.
There's the dock setting,
there's the mobility setting,
and new for Tiger are
mobility preferences for
Portable Home Directories,
and software update settings
in Managed Client 10.
So in the Mac OS X Tiger server,
there is a software update proxy,
or software update server,
and we want to have the
clients also use that server,
and there's now a managed
setting to have the clients
hook up to their local system,
as opposed to going to Apple for
their software updates.
We have proxy settings,
so we can use Workgroup Manager and
Managed Client X to manage the proxy
settings of the network clients,
and we have support for login scripts,
so instead of having login
hooks for the local system,
We can have network based login scripts.
And we also have login window message.
And if you saw on the demos,
the login window has a custom item there.
Welcome to WWC 2005.
And that's coming from the
managed client 10 settings
through the login window message.
And finally, there are details.
So details is a way to edit preferences.
So preference editor
inside Workgroup Manager.
And new types of settings-- once, often,
and always.
So all usually in-- traditionally
in Mac OS X Panther,
the settings were either forced,
they were always on, or they were not on.
But in Mac OS X Tiger,
we have new classes for having the
settings applied for the user once,
or having the settings
applied for the user often.
And by often,
we mean the settings are applied for
the user whenever the user logs on.
So any new login session will have
these settings applied for the user.
Last but not least,
the preference manifests.
Preference manifests are a big thing.
That's a way to tell how
applications use their preferences.
I'm going to go into further detail
on the preference manifest here.
Preference manifest allows you to declare
how the application preferences are used.
It could be custom defaults,
or it could be enabling
or disabling functionality
settings of the application.
Having a preference manifest allows a
system administrator or network admin to
manage the deployment of the application
through Workgroup Manager through the
details editor that I'll show now.
In Workgroup Manager,
this is the interface that
system administrators would use.
Under the details pane,
we see that there are settings for
Managed Client 10 MCX and Doc settings.
This is the inside view
of how the preferences are
done for Managed Client 10.
But now there's an add button.
If I click the add button
and I wanted to set,
let's say, voiceover setting,
I want to disable voiceover for
a classroom or for a set of users
because that's just too disruptive.
So I would go and add
voiceover in the details view,
and voiceover has a preference
manifest in it built in.
And once I add it to the
Workgroup Manager view,
I see that it's an entry
in the Workgroup Manager.
If I now click edit,
I have the view of... of setting the
disabled state of voiceover to true.
And how this actually
works behind the scene,
let me invite Bruce Geyer back on the
stage and we'll show how this is done.
Oh, sorry.
No, we'll go... First, yes.
First we show how it was written
and then we'll show how it's done.
I was keeping ahead of myself.
So preference manifest, well,
how does it work under the hood?
So for screen reader D,
screen reader D is voiceover,
and it's a bundle inside the application.
And it's localizable,
so it could be in multiple languages.
And the Mac OS X server
languages are English,
Japanese, French, and German.
It's a property list.
It's a plist.
And it could be created by hand
using property list editor.
It could be done in Xcode.
Pick your favorite text editor.
And here's how the voiceover
preference manifest looks like.
It's really simple, very easy to do.
So it's a plist.
And first,
we have a key in the dictionary in
the plist for PFM underscore title.
PFM stands for preference manifest.
And the application that we care about,
it's voiceover.
So that's the title of the
application we want to manage.
And then there's a domain.
So what is the internal
name for the application?
It's a com apple type name.
So here we have screenreader D.
And that ties the preferences
into the application.
So in the UI, it would look like this.
So that's the view presented
through Workgroup Manager.
The title and the domain
are shown for the user.
Then further,
what are the individual keys?
So there are sub-keys for
every controllable element
inside the application.
So here we have an array of dictionaries.
So each entry in the array would
correspond to one controllable entry
in the application's preferences.
So these are under the preference
manifest sub-keys key in the dictionary,
in the plist.
So first,
there's a key for disabling VoiceOver.
And it's under pfm-title.
And this is the user-visible
description of the key.
And what does it do?
A pfm description would be set
to something to do something.
And here it's set to true
to disable VoiceOver.
And inside VoiceOver-- so how does
VoiceOver application know what to do?
So inside VoiceOver,
it's looking for scr startup disabled.
So that's screen reader
d startup disabled.
And the value of that
key would be a Boolean.
So the type of the variable
that we use is bool.
And here's how it would look
like in Workgroup Manager again.
So here we have the
disabled VoiceOver key,
its description,
and the type and the value.
And now we go to the demo.
So I'll invite Bruce back up
on the stage and show you how
preference manifests are used.
Okay.
Glad to be here finally.
Now, back to Demo 1.
Okay, first of all,
I have a server set up, I said that,
and I have a group.
And these are group records
in the directory service.
And I have this one called WWDC Crew.
And if I look at the accounts,
I can see that there's
two members in this.
And what I want to do is
I want to have it so that when
people in this group log in,
they get a particular
desktop that I have.
So to do that, first of all,
I'm going to set the desktop
for this particular machine
or this particular login.
So I'm going to go to System Preferences.
desktop and screen saver, desktop,
and one of those black and white ones.
Let's take that one.
Okay,
that's a pretty distinctive desktop.
It's nice and black and
white and pretty serious.
That's the kind of mood I want
to set for this particular group.
So I want to get this desktop over
to these machines when they log in.
So I'm going to go ahead and
Go to Preferences,
and this is the stuff that we had before,
and then go to Details.
Okay?
And there's a button
down here called Add.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going
to find that particular preference,
which is in the current user
admin library preferences.
And let's find the desktop preference.
Okay, there it is.
com.apple.desktop.plist And I'm
going to say "Add." And that
gets copied from there,
right to here, and it actually is
already applied to this.
It's actually stored now in the
directory system under this group.
Now I'm going to go --
I can look at this and edit.
Press the "Add" button.
And this is the basic of the editor.
These three things here -- there's
a "Once," "Often," and "Always."
"Once" is for setting things up once,
and then the user can change
them from that point on.
"Often" would be setting
stuff every time they log in,
which is new in Tiger.
And "Always" also sets things
every time they log in,
but it's fixed and can't
be changed by the user.
And that actually requires
cooperation from the application
to really do it right.
And I'll get into that.
So by default,
I'm going to open up the "Often" thing,
and I see that there's one thing in there
called "Background." And in there -- wow,
this is getting bigger
every time I do this demo.
There is these four
entries in this directory.
And from experience,
I know that these aren't any good.
And there's something I have to mention,
that if you're going to
do editing of this kind,
you have to test everything
to make sure it works.
Okay?
Because you're actually
-- what you're doing,
you're going to be pushing preferences,
you know, over these machines when the
application isn't running,
and you want to make sure it works.
So I've tested this,
so it's -- I know that default will work.
So I look in default,
and there's a bunch of things there.
Just "plist," and this
is the keys they use,
but it looks pretty good.
So I just say "Apply Now." And I'm done.
And now this -- people in this group will
get this desktop if everything works.
Okay.
Why don't you try that?
So if you can have our demo 2 back up,
please.
So on demo 2,
I still have my network account.
So -- whoops -- I want
to log on to my account.
So when I log on --
If you remember from the
previous time I logged in,
I had a regular desktop,
just the blue Aqua screen.
So now,
because Bruce has set the settings
for the workgroup that I belong to,
now my desktop is whatever it was
pushed down by the administrator.
But I don't necessarily want
to have this desktop here.
So let me go and try to change that.
So I want to change desktop.
OK, here we go.
Change desktop.
And because this was a once setting,
it's not a forced preference.
It's more like a suggestion for the user.
So I'll go back and
pick up something more,
let's say, for fur.
No, let's go for tiger.
Yay.
So now I have a tiger desktop here.
And the thing is that I can
still change the preference,
but if I log out--
And this is the point
of the often setting.
So if I now log back
in using this account,
My desktop is now back to the
default that was set by Workgroup
Management through Managed Client 10.
So that's the often setting.
And if we go back to Demo 1.
Okay.
So I was able to push this desktop out,
and that was kind of fun.
But I have some other stuff.
I have TextEdit here,
and I want to set up some
settings in TextEdit.
And I'm going to go to the
TextEdit preferences here.
And I have a whole bunch of stuff
that I kind of want to set here.
So I change this all,
and I want these settings to
be applied to these machines.
So I'm going to do the same thing.
I ran TextEdit,
and now I'm going to quit TextEdit,
because that will make sure the
preferences are saved off to files.
And then I'm going to go back to Add,
and under Add, I'm back in, you know,
my account, library,
"And now I have to find
the TextEdit preferences.
And I'm going to flip down here.
TextEdit.
com.apple.textedit,
I think is what it's called.
There it is.
And I'm going to say Add.
Now, let's look at what I added there.
Well, they all go into "often,"
and look at this.
There's 17 items,
and they're kind of all,
"What does that mean?
And how am I going to find out what this,
you know, if TextEdit, you know,
how is someone going to manage
TextEdit if this is what they see?"
So we came up with this concept,
and it's new,
called a Preference Manifest.
And a Preference Manifest will be
a description of these preferences,
which can be used by Workgroup Manager to
clean this all up and make this look a
lot better and make it more editable.
Like,
you can set what the ranges of different
preferences are so they're all correct.
And you're also,
by publishing a Preference Manifest,
you're saying that these can be managed.
Now, an application writer doesn't have
to write a Preference Manifest.
Actually, if you're an IT person,
you can actually try to reverse
engineer and figure out what these
preferences mean and write your own
Preference Manifest for your site use,
or even, you know,
publish it on the Internet for
other IT people to use.
It's a description of what
the preferences do and
how they can be managed.
So I'm going to try to manage that,
so let's get out of here.
And so I want to build
a Preference Manifest.
Tiger ships with a preference
manifest for Safari.
So here's Safari down here.
So I'm going to Command-click
to go to where Safari is
in the application folder.
And I'm going to get the preference
manifest for Safari and then modify it.
So I'm in Safari.
So I'm going to click on
that and open up its bundle.
Show package contents.
And in the contents, in the resources,
and let's look at,
I know there's a file called
com.apple.safari.manifest.
So...
There it is.
OK.
It turns out that this is also a bundle,
so I'm going to open that up again.
Show package contents,
and in the contents, resources.
And this is what a localized
preference manifest looks like.
And by the way,
it turns out Safari spent a
little extra money and localized
it in all the Safari languages.
But it really only has to be
localized in the administrator
languages or the server languages.
But they did it anyway,
and it's still valid.
I'm not going to get
into localization today,
but I'm going to take this file
here and copy it to the desktop.
And I'm going to use that
as a template for text edit.
So let's close these things.
OK.
So now I'm going to look at
this with Property List Editor.
And remember, this is a Safari manifest.
Well, actually,
I got ahead of myself here.
Let's close this.
First thing I want to do
is rename this from Safari.
I don't want to do that.
I want to rename it.
Extended.Manifest.
There.
Now let's open it.
Okay, so let's open it up and we see at
the root are these PFM underbar keys,
and what we see,
we see description is Safari Preferences,
name is Safari, title is Safari,
and version is 1,
but I'm going to change everywhere
it says Safari to TextEdit.
And for version... I'm just
playing around for now,
so I'm going to change it to 0.1.
Okay.
Now, in this one key,
PFM subkeys are all the top-level
keys that I will want to manage.
So we look in it,
and we see in Safari there are 35
keys which can be managed in Safari.
Well, for the purposes of this demo,
I'm only going to really, you know,
do two or three, so I'm just going to
get rid of all these.
I think we'll just do one today.
So we just look at it.
So these are all these various things.
Let's get rid of them.
There.
And then we get to the first
key that can be managed,
and we see this is something for Safari.
Okay,
so now we have to set up these fields,
and this is a description of
what the preferences look like.
So the first thing to do is, well,
what do the preferences look
like in the plist format?
So I'm going to open up
the TextEdit plist now.
Let's go to Property List Editor, Open.
This time it's an admin
library preferences.
com.apple.textedit.plist.
Let's make this a little bigger.
There it is.
OK, let's open it.
And let's look inside of it.
We see all this stuff in here.
Now,
if you're going to write one of these
and you're not the application writer,
you have to kind of figure out
how these things are used and try
to write a description of them.
So the one that I'm interested in
for this demo is I'm just going
to be interested in company.
Company is a string that seems
like a very good one to write in
Manifest because it's nice and easy.
So I'm going to look at one
of these Manifest keys here,
PFM_subkeys.
And it has a key called PFM_default.
And first of all,
the type's going to be string.
And I could put the default in here.
And I could put, well,
for purposes of my site,
I'm just going to put Apple computer.
Okay.
And for description,
I want to have something that
will appear in Workgroup Manager,
so I'm just going to type, you know,
company name in the --
New Document Preferences window,
or whatever I like.
I can get really fancy if I want.
For the domain, it's not Safari.
It's going to be com.apple.textedit.
And the name, now this is going to
be the actual key name,
so what I'm going to do is
make sure I get it right.
I'm going to copy it from the text edit
preferences and paste it right into here.
It's a string.
That's the key name.
Range list.
I mentioned that you can have
different ranges for things.
Those are mostly for numeric things.
So it doesn't really apply here.
You can look at it some other time.
Let's just delete it for now,
because range list doesn't
apply to the string.
Let's skip targets for
now and go to title.
The title for this
should be company name.
And I capitalized, so it looks nice.
And its type is going to be string.
There we go.
OK, now, let's get the PFM targets.
This is the place where it's
valid to apply this preference.
In Safari, when I started,
it had two places where it was OK.
It had user and user managed.
User would be either once or often.
And user managed would be what
we're calling always or forced.
And to put it in here means that it
should be supported by the application.
So if I was an IT person,
and I was back editing TextEdit
for making this manifest,
I'd probably get rid of this,
because TextEdit does
not really support this.
I could try trial and error to see
if it supports it here and there,
but probably it doesn't.
So it would be best to delete it.
Later on, I'm going to be modifying
TextEdit so it actually does work.
And then I want to put this back again.
OK,
so that is one preference manifest key.
So I'll tell you what.
I've already done this for TextEdit,
and I want to show it to you briefly.
So let's get rid of this and get
rid of my-- we can save that.
I'm going to open this
one on the desktop.
And this is my final one.
And it looks the same thing, FES subkeys,
but in it I've done, I did 15 keys,
I decided 15 was a good number of
things that I wanted to describe,
and if you look in any of them,
you can see there's various things.
This one's for the author,
there's others,
but that kind of looks like
this is a preference manifest,
a non-localized one.
Let's get rid of that.
And now,
let's go back to Workgroup Manager.
Remember that I just imported
all this stuff for text edit.
So, I'm going to enhance this by
adding a preference manifest.
So, I go to the Add button,
and I find my manifest,
which is on the desktop.
TextEdit Manifest, there it is.
Say Add.
And right away, it changes from
com.apple.textedit to textedit,
and it looks a little nicer.
And now when I go to edit it,
[Transcript missing]
Copyright 2003, so this is probably in
violation of whatever,
so I really shouldn't be able to
do this if these preferences really
were managed for the application,
or even worse,
I can say restore to default
so it reverts back to whatever
was the application's default.
So this is the often or once
setting how it's applied,
in this case, for this application.
So now we'll show next how to do this
so that the application behaves in a
way that it respects the management
settings so that it locks out the
UI for this particular piece of GUI.
So let's go back to demo one.
Okay.
So we're back.
I was left at work with manager.
Let's hide that.
Okay, so what I did was I went in and
I grabbed TextEdit from the developer CD,
and I modified it so that
it would do two things.
One is I wanted to dim those settings
when they're managed so the user
knows that he can't change them,
and he's not frustrated by thinking he
can change them when he really can't.
The next thing is I wanted to
make sure that Restore to Defaults
button didn't go back and reset
everything once I managed it.
So it's just two simple changes.
So I'm going to open Xcode here
and look at the code for TextEdit.
Okay.
Come on, Xcode, do your stuff.
There you go.
Okay.
Let's leave that down.
Here's the project.
OK.
So TextEdit turns out to be well-behaved,
first of all,
because it's well-behaved because it gets
all its defaults from NSUserDefaults.
And it doesn't do anything
funny on the side,
so all the managed preferences
do get picked up by TextEdit.
That works fine.
I just have to get the
disabling in place.
So another thing-- it's a Cocoa app.
Just looking at it,
I found that there's this one
class called Preferences.m
that handles preferences.
It's very convenient.
So all I had to do was
open this one file.
And what I did was I added
a call for Awake from Nib.
And those of you who are Cocoa developers
know that when a window comes up,
it gets called.
And all I did in Awake from Nib--
was I got NSUserDefaults, copy that.
And then for every outlet,
or every item in the preferences window,
I did a setEnabled call.
And I used-- first of all,
did this NSUserDefaults call
called objectIsForcedForKey.
And I went through for every
key and asked that question,
is this key forced?
If the key is forced, I disable it,
or take the not of it, and setEnabled.
And if it isn't forced,
then it's enabled.
So that was the simple change.
And that will disable items
in the preferences pane.
And I did it for all the
items which I had done the
preference manifest for earlier.
Now there's one other place I changed.
Okay.
I found out by looking at the code,
this is the old code
which I've commented out,
that when you hit that button,
which is restore to default,
TextEdit goes through
this internal table,
and if you look at it,
it just basically sets up
this dictionary and says,
okay, this setting gets set to this,
this setting gets set to this.
It's all hard-coded in the code.
It knows what the default should be,
no matter what.
So, what I did was,
I wanted to change that so that
if a preference was forced,
it would get the value from
the managed preferences,
or from the forced preferences,
and if it's not forced,
I want it to go back to this table.
I wrote a rather,
not an especially nasty macro,
but kind of a large macro that did this.
And it allowed me to plug it into this
call to create a new NSDictionary here.
And essentially that's all it does.
For each of these things, it says, OK,
for this key, is--
object is forced for this key.
If that is true,
then let's get the item from default.
If it's not true,
then let's just get the item
which is plugged into this table.
So I just went through,
and for each item,
I just used my macros and basically
had this table that initialized it.
So that's all the
changes I made and that,
essentially, is going to make
TextManager for this app.
So let's quit Xcode for now.
One other thing.
In WorkRoute Manager, if you remember,
I left everything in the often.
So I went to TextEdit to edit,
and we see that there's
three items in often.
And I'm just going to move
those to the always area now.
So I take company,
and I can cut and paste.
[Transcript missing]
And let's add something to this
so we really know it's live.
All right, it's reserved.
Okay, so this looks good.
Okay, so we apply now.
That's all set up.
We're done with this.
And now,
you should now try to log into TextEdit
and show how this management is applied.
Okay.
So if you can go back to Demo 2, please.
So in Demo 2,
when I log on again with this account,
now I pick up the new managed settings.
So instead of having often
preferences for TextEdit,
I have the forced always preferences.
So let's see, bring up TextEdit,
and let's go and see what
my preferences look like.
And indeed, here they are.
They are locked.
And if I click Restore Defaults,
nothing happens.
So with three lines of code,
we enable TextEdit to respect
the management settings that
I applied on the application.
So if I had a company policy to have
certain document defaults or even
setting up copyright strings or other
metadata-- so with TextEdit now,
let's say with this version
of TextEdit in Tiger,
it actually writes out
metadata for Spotlight.
So I could actually embed some of
these things into the metadata for any
document that is created by this user.
And then when these documents are saved,
Spotlight picks them up and it's indexed.
So let's see if I have
anything here-- WWDC demo.
And save that as test document.
And now if I go to Spotlight and see,
let's say,
copyright 2005 and all rights reserved.
And TextEdit has that,
and that was probably WWDC.
Did we have all our ads reserved?
Look at it.
Let's see what the preference here.
Oh, it's in copyright,
so company would be indexed.
So here, if I go again, Apple Computer,
And there are slots,
and here comes the test document.
And that's picked up.
It's not anywhere here.
Oops.
Make this bigger.
Edit.
Okay.
It doesn't say Apple Computer here,
so the only way Spotlight
picks that up is through the
metadata for this document.
So this would enable companies to deploy
applications that contain metadata that
is forced for all documents that are
created within this managed environment.
All right.
So that concludes the demo.
Thank you, Bruce.
So if you can go back to the slides.
To the slides, please.
Slides are dark.
Oh, there's a screensaver on the machine.
Excellent.
So wrapping up,
first to go back to preference manifests.
So what's important about that?
In Workgroup Manager,
in a network environment,
system administrators now can set
custom defaults for application.
They can write their own
application preference manifests.
So if network administrators have,
let's say, application XYZ,
and they want to set some of
the often preferences or once
preferences for application,
they can use the preference manifests.
The other way is to use the--
excuse me, first they can go and
edit the preferences,
just bringing up the plist.
So they can grab any plist and make that
applied on any system on the network.
And if they're a little
bit more inquisitive,
they can go and create a
preface manifest on their own.
And third, but not least,
is you as application developers,
you can enable your applications
to be management aware.
And if you have settings that are,
let's say,
hidden preferences or other settings that
alter the behavior of the application,
some things that you don't
want to expose through the UI,
for example, disable sharing of music,
for example.
You don't want to have that in the GUI,
but you want to enable that functionality
through a preference manifest.
You can do that by writing
a preference manifest.
So that's a very powerful way of
deploying applications on a network.
And in a managed environment.
So wrapping up,
earlier we talked about using
applications on a network volume or
users having network home directories and
how that affects the usage of the system,
the user's experience of performance,
for example,
and how our applications are used.
If we use caches that go
into users' home directory,
those might actually cause
network traffic to happen,
even when the intention was
to minimize network traffic.
And we want to optimize for that
using the tools FS Usage and Shark,
and we want to test all these cases.
And managed users, the same thing,
preferences could be managed for the user
or for the Workgroup or for the system.
Again, test your application in these
type of deployment scenarios
so that you know that your
application can be run off of a,
let's say, read-only media,
or your application can be
run from a network volume,
and that your application doesn't require
resources from the local system to be
installed in the user's home directory.
If you want to deploy applications in a
network system or network environment,
you might want to have your
installer write stuff into the
local library application support
locations that are local to the
system and not on the network.
And we talked about
portable home directories,
how your network account
becomes a local account,
but it's more like a hybrid.
It's a cached account of
the network credentials.
So your net info record
might be overwritten,
and the information you store for the
user in the net info record could be
written over at the time when the account
is next time synced to the network.
And finally,
we talked about preference manifests,
how to enable the application to be
preference manifest aware and management
aware and how network administrators
would deploy applications and how
they would use this feature to control
the usage of the applications that
are in use at any given location.
So that's the summary of the demo,
how to make network-friendly
applications.
If anyone came here to hear about
how to do installer scripts,
I'm sorry we didn't cover that.
There were sessions about how
to do post-install actions,
pre-install actions,
how to deploy applications.
Those will be covered at
the installer sessions,
and there are slides and
sessions available later on
DVDs and on the developer site.
So for more information,
developerapp.com, slide 1.
And related sessions, Swimimic Shark.
So if you want to
optimize your application,
Shark is a really good tool for that.
So you can use Shark to
profile your applications,
either memory access or disk access,
whatnot.
And there's a hands-on session tomorrow.
And for management side,
there's a session by
John Detroit tomorrow,
and that will be talking about
real-world management centers.
How are your applications
used in a network environment,
in a virtual university
or in an enterprise?
Which is not your typical
application usage,
so there are special things
that you have to account for.
And if you really want
to stand out and fit in,
there are some things you
want to take into account,
just like creating preference
manifests and running properly
from a network volume.